# How I read

This post is inspired from FightMediocrity's YouTube channel video
"How I read two to three books every week" - 
(link)[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qARv-vEh2o8]. Great content, wanted to
give back and also revise my techniques.

## Choosing different techniques

It seems that reading "hacks" are similar to setting up a person's programming
environment: "Different things work for different people" and because of that
no two people will have the same elements or the same mix of them working for
them. As an example most developers I know use a different colour combination
for highlighting source code. What is common in this case is that everyone
has looked out, tried different things and made a choice for himself. This
indicates how I would suggest to use this post: copy a lot from different
places, but at the end of the day end up with something that works for you.

Something related with skill acquisition and retention would be suggesting
adopting one technique at a time, integrating it, then picking up another one
etc. Even if 100% of the stuff below makes sense to you (which should not be
the case because everyone is different), adopting each one of them might
trigger regression or limited results.

## The hacks

In loose order of importance.

## Read it when you need it

The "it is better to drink water while feeling thirsty analogy". This piece of
advice originates from start-up literature but cannot now remember the origin.
It is better to engage with content close to when it is needed in order to
achieve a task. This will keep the brain active and will allow higher
absorvance rate of content.

An example from my experiences would be Noam Wassermann's "The founder's
dilemmas", which has lots of statistical analysis on various start-up companies
and what they encounter. There is a chapter about stuffing. I read that book
while in a start-up scenario we would be in the process of discussing if a
person should be hired and what characteristics that person should have as well
as compensation etc. Maybe the highest pages per day ratio ever.

So the hack would be summarised to: Identify a gap that needs to be addressed
in the near future, then read material related to that gap.

## Read it when you want it

The second strongest force after necessity should be desire or curiosity. This
applies both for fiction and non-fiction titles. Identify things that are of
interest to you and engage when you feel like it.

Try to avoid what is currently popular or trending on the web or just hip,
unless of course it has to do with your interests.

Example: I have a semi-professional interest in advertising and the arts of
persuasion in general. I was lucky enough to win a copy of Byron Sharp's "how
brands grow". It immediately became the next item  of my list. If I realise
that I ended up not so interested in the subject, it will probably be given to
someone that might like or need it more.

## Read actively

Advice from Tim Feriss from the "4 hour week":

SCREENSHOT

Following lines with the finger provided a great speed multiplier and focus
assistance even when some distractions were around. Then adjusting the eyes
as adviced provided an additional incremental improvement.

In order to be active and engaged some people hold a pen or marker to underline
passages. An complimental approach is to use post-its for interesting pages.
I have seen the latter also as a substitution for underlining for whoever
does not want to "damage" the book.

## Make time

By engaging into small rearrangments of day to day schedule can many times
create pockets of time for extra reading. On London using the underground,
starting the commute from a different station added 5 minutes to the journey
but eliminated one exchange. This created a 25 minute continious pocket back
and forth in total of almost an hour of reading per day.

## It is OK to stop

This hack is again from a person from the IT start-up scene whose name I cannot
remember: If at any given point while reading you feel like doing something
else, then stop. Do what you have to and then come back or leave it for another
day.

I would say that it is OK to stop reading books if they suddenly are not
any more interesting or if the mood about them changed. This happened with the
third part of the Dune series: I wanted to read about the sands of Arakis,
but after following up from volume two just could not follow through. I dropped
the book immediately.  Will probably pick it up at some point in the future.
A friend of mine always reads books up to their last page no matter what. After
trying to do this, I found myself not wanting to read anything significant for
a couple of weeks, so it did not apply to me.

The above should not become a habit: starting but never finishing. The tactic
should exist as a tool, but one of the tools that are not used often.

## Prefer paperbacks

Paperbacks have some advantages: They are easier to carry around because of 
weight and size. This means that there are more opportunities to read them
hence one can read more for the same time.

Also because of the lower price, there is less guilt in "book abuse":
underlining them, sticking post-its, having coffee spill over in a coffe shop
etc.

For the two reasons above it is easier to circulate them among friends: borrow,
lend etc. After one or two reads the cost per person read drops significantly.

There is another factor that contributes to reading paperbacks: they can be
purchased from different sources. Remember the 3rd book of the Dune series
mentioned before? It was purchased from a Christian charity from the US for
about £2.50 (One cup of coffee in the UK). This means that there is both the
contribution to the charity as well as that stopping it has a £2.50 "loss",
which would be easier than doing the same to a £30 hard-copy.

### But I hate paperbacks and I love my kindle

... and that's OK. What this section wants to convey is also something in the
lines of *"Choose your prefered medium"*. Whatever works best.

## Alternate between "fact" and "fiction" titles

Maybe the most "personal" one, in the area that it might not be applicable to
everyone. Alternating between fiction and non fiction titles helps me:

* to enjoy reading more leading to generally reading more,
* introduce new concepts,
* cultivate my English.

## Buy now to read later

Alternatively bookmark, write down the title, archive details.
Buy now to read later applies mostly for items in the physical world that are
either rare or in sale or for some reason attractive for a purchase. You see
the volume that you want to read a bench selling for £2: Can be purchased on
the spot and be read in a year.

Alternatively archiving/bookmarking so that the information can be referenced
back. One "app for that" is Google's Keep which can store both photos and
text in post-it format.

## Admit it
**Note**: Maybe a better title (Accept it, etc), note that it was copied from the initial video.

Placed it strategically as the last one to demonstrate that the above hacks
are of different importance to different people. For some this could be the
first step.

Admit first to yourself that reading is one of the ways to educate and inform
yourself. Then that this is OK and not for everyone. There are people that
learn through different media or are just reading-intolerant. There are also
people that want to evolve and people that feel fine as they are.

# Additional resources

Have not utilised the advice here, next on the list:
(Read to lead: how to digest books above your “level”)[http://ryanholiday.net/read-to-lead-how-to-digest-books-above-your-level/] from Ryan Holiday.

