---
layout: default
title: Books of 2018
permalink: /books2018
---

# Books of 2018

Was writing reviews on GoodReads, copy here.

## Extreme Ownership

One of the books that wanted to read twice, with the first time when it was released back in 2015-6. Twelve leadership principles in the following format: What happened in battle, since the main author Jocko is an ex-Navy Seals, discussion-definition of the principle, followed by applications in businesses based from the consultancy currently operaeted by them.

Book is split into three parts with each discussing one principle. From each one of them the ones that grabbed my attention most was "Extreme Ownership", "Prioritize and Execute", and "Discipline Eguals Freedom - The Dichotomy of Leadership".

Although read twice, I will get back to it to steal some quotes for further use :).

## How Comics Work

With comics being my favourite medium I am always after books/material that lets you look under the hood. With that when finding Dave Gibon's book I knowing his work knew I would like it and enjoy reading it. Will deffer from giving a rank as this should be done from professionals or active enthusiasts of the medium.

## Thank You for Being Late

Note: Got a copy of this book as part of author's promotional tour. I want to
thank him and the publisher for this. I also listened to his presentation which
illustrated the main points in this book.

Unfortunately this book suffered from very bad timing. As I often read two books
in parallel I happened to be reading Nicolas Naseem Taleb's "Antifragile" at the
same time where at some point Thomas Friedman is totally discredited as "having
no skin in the game", aka writing opinions without a consequence for these
opinions on his life nor journalistic integrity. At the same time a friend of
mine (did not check) informed me that Friedman advocated in favour of the two
Iraq wars as something "good for Globalisation". For me along these lines this
is where the problem with the author and as an extension with the book is.

Author is a great story teller and his writing has wonderful flow, there is the
first problem: he tailors probably subconsciously his arguments to fit the
narrative. There are for example five main factors driving "the future" (four
plus one really: "What the Hell Happened in 2007?", "Moore’s Law", "The
Supernova", "The Market", "Mother Nature"). Why five? Why not ten or twenty or
just three. Maybe because five is a good number for lists or makes a better
story?

Second is his politics, there is a Hillary Clinton champaign socialism certainty
is his words (without consequences to him - let's repeat this) specially on how
he communicates that things are inevitable with the rest of us only able to
adjust better or take advantage. For example: economic Globalisation:
inevitable; even in the Pyramids, they sell souvenirs "made in China". As we
see though recently we are past the peak-Globalisation and now nations and
communities are exploring more local approaches (Brexit one of them). This for
the author instead of a historical circle (spiral) with peaks and bottoms is
more like a blip in the radar. No problem he can say that he predicted that in
his next book...

I could pick up some additional examples like how his native Minnesota has-to
accept a huge influx of immigrants (like me), just because Globalisation, Global
Warming, without ever asking the current residents if are OK with that or on
which terms (this from his talk did not read the last chapter of the book).
Decided it is best to stop here as I assume my reader has got the point.

With that I would suggest this book only to people that are into writing and
want to see how it is done by a master of the art. I still read his column from
time to time, and really think he is a good person with good intentions, but
from this books - stay away.

## Princess of Mars

Decided to go for a deep dive into vintage science fiction see how it stands
today, if popular or used to be popular cultural artefacts have passed the test
of time and how. First stop "Edgar Rice Burroughs" and "Princess of Mars".

I will not dive in the plot which is generally available on the Internets
(see [GoodReads](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14539907-princess-of-mars)
or [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A_Princess_of_Mars)) will only
comment on how I felt reading it today.

Generally there were places where the book is really amazing wondering how
much of a genius Burroughs must have been, at places it seems that it has not
aged well, while some elements do not match with contemporary tastes or clichés.
I rushed reading it because I wanted to continue reading other things, but at
the end it left me wanting some more. Burroughs made me at the end "live in" and
"see" his Mars, so a part of me wants to get back while feeling a sense of loss
while writing these lines.

**What I loved**: (saying it again) felt of being along with the protagonist,
The technology of Mars, the local non-human tribes, princess is sexy.
**What did not like so much**: (1) How the protagonist, John
Carter, has an unfair disadvantage from day one (he is stronger because of
being from Earth), and then another one (can read others' thoughts but not
vice-versa). Generally things are a bit too easy for him. (2) Generally how he
moved the romantic affair with the princess, Dejah Thoris, with which he fell
in love. I would prefer a more Conan (let's do it) approach, but this is part
of how author wanted to build characters.
Where I am guilty: I love Robert E. Howard's Conan, so I thought I would find
a "Conan in Mars", which is not the case.

Verdict: At some point in life I will continue with the second book of the
series, but next stop will be Dynamite's and other Graphic Novel adaptations.

Some notes on the IDW Publishing Hardcover edition with illustrations from
Michael Wm. Kaluta: I knew Kaluta from other works of his and really appreciated
his talent once I found out who he is (it seems that is art was all around me,
without me noticing). Pros: the book has been very well taken care of, feels
that people from IDW took care of their heritage and wanted to produce the
best they could. There is only one problem: the book is plainly HUGE for no
reason. Very large fonts and while opening the package I realised that I had
not checked the dimensions because I could not fathom that it would be so big.
This gets it straight to armchair, coffee-table, I do not have a shelf big
enough to put it and definitely could not travel with it. I believe something
more A4-ish could achieve all their goals or a smaller font/line spacing which
would make it at least less thick.

Links:

1. [Amazon UK link](https://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/1613771827)
2. [My GoodReads review](https://www.goodreads.com/review/show/2290895520?book_show_action=false)

Links for follow up (random order):
* <http://johncarterofmars.ca/>
* <http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0401729/fullcredits> le movie
* <https://comicvine.gamespot.com/dejah-thoris/4005-34145/>
* <https://www.ebay.co.uk/sch/Books-Comics-Magazines/267/i.html?_from=R40&_nkw=john+carter&LH_PrefLoc=1> ebay

## Skin in the game

I was amazed to see how fast I devoured this book it took me so little time that
had to check Wordery's dispatch date just to be sure: a little bit more than 10
little less than 15 days. Will definitely read it again at some point in the
 near - I hope- future.

Some notes, not a full review, just some complimentary thoughts.

This is my second Incerto book after "Antifragile" and increases its effect
on me and some behaviors: Perception of east-Mediterranean identity, risk
taking (after reading Taleb I tend to take more and smaller risks), how to
learn, whom to talk with and about what, and more. An example is which books to
buy: is book X Lindy-optimal or is it something pop that will vanish in 3 years
most? One will be surprised to see how many fall in the latter category. Also is
it written from someone that has "skin in the game" or is it a Varoufakis/Paul
Krugman/armchair academic type of thing? Should I throw away or recycle things
that I do not need (via "via negativa")?

As a side-note, someone correctly wrote here that while reading author's posts
and following him on Twitter a large part of book's content is known to you.
This is good because reading them in an actual book allowed to dive in the
individual concepts. It is understandable though that some people might have
been bored a little.

Links:

1. [GoodReads](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36064445-skin-in-the-game)

## Economix

**Update reading notes, page 239**:

Great and joyful to read. Lots of info. I am confused on the author's position
towards big government. He seems to be in favour of it when it acts as he wants,
against it when it acts against his wish (USA gov. it is). I really thought
based on his arguments that he would prefer less intervention, in the last
pages, about 1945 and onwards it seems that the "story" of economics is a story
of governmental intervention.

**Update reading notes, page 270**:
Close to the end of the book, claim of one commenter in GoodReads 100% spot on
unfortunately: half of the book is actually what the title is about and what the
book promises, last half is about author's political beliefs. Apart from some
laughable claims such as how good the government of Venezuela was or about
the Greek protesters (lackey's of the current government more than anything
else), the whole endavor is a little bit immoral: Author starts the half
of the book with facts or at least tries to explain economic phenomena then
serves us author's opinions and (semi-socialist) beliefs. So for the naive
reader it could be something like: Fact-Fact-Fact-Fact-Fact-The end, while it
actually is Fact-Fact-Debatable as Fact-Opinion-Opinion.

I will read it until the end but I lost faith.

**Last update**:
Finished the book earlier today. 100% confident that the author has good
intentions, really liked the content in the last pages (challenges and future),
but still the book ended up not feeling exactly good for me, mainly because
it does not work as advertised. Though some great cartoons and insights here.

Links:

1. [GoodReads](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13591145-economix)
