---
layout: default
title: Books of 2018
permalink: /books2018
---

# Books of 2018

Was writing reviews on GoodReads, copy here.

## Extreme Ownership

One of the books that wanted to read twice, with the first time when it was released back in 2015-6. Twelve leadership principles in the following format: What happened in battle, since the main author Jocko is an ex-Navy Seals, discussion-definition of the principle, followed by applications in businesses based from the consultancy currently operaeted by them.

Book is split into three parts with each discussing one principle. From each one of them the ones that grabbed my attention most was "Extreme Ownership", "Prioritize and Execute", and "Discipline Eguals Freedom - The Dichotomy of Leadership".

Although read twice, I will get back to it to steal some quotes for further use :).

## How Comics Work

With comics being my favourite medium I am always after books/material that lets you look under the hood. With that when finding Dave Gibon's book I knowing his work knew I would like it and enjoy reading it. Will deffer from giving a rank as this should be done from professionals or active enthusiasts of the medium.

## Thank You for Being Late

Note: Got a copy of this book as part of author's promotional tour. I want to
thank him and the publisher for this. I also listened to his presentation which
illustrated the main points in this book.

Unfortunately this book suffered from very bad timing. As I often read two books
in parallel I happened to be reading Nicolas Naseem Taleb's "Antifragile" at the
same time where at some point Thomas Friedman is totally discredited as "having
no skin in the game", aka writing opinions without a consequence for these
opinions on his life nor journalistic integrity. At the same time a friend of
mine (did not check) informed me that Friedman advocated in favour of the two
Iraq wars as something "good for Globalisation". For me along these lines this
is where the problem with the author and as an extension with the book is.

Author is a great story teller and his writing has wonderful flow, there is the
first problem: he tailors probably subconsciously his arguments to fit the
narrative. There are for example five main factors driving "the future" (four
plus one really: "What the Hell Happened in 2007?", "Mooreâ€™s Law", "The
Supernova", "The Market", "Mother Nature"). Why five? Why not ten or twenty or
just three. Maybe because five is a good number for lists or makes a better
story?

Second is his politics, there is a Hillary Clinton champaign socialism certainty
is his words (without consequences to him - let's repeat this) specially on how
he communicates that things are inevitable with the rest of us only able to
adjust better or take advantage. For example: economic Globalisation:
inevitable; even in the Pyramids, they sell souvenirs "made in China". As we
see though recently we are past the peak-Globalisation and now nations and
communities are exploring more local approaches (Brexit one of them). This for
the author instead of a historical circle (spiral) with peaks and bottoms is
more like a blip in the radar. No problem he can say that he predicted that in
his next book...

I could pick up some additional examples like how his native Minnesota has-to
accept a huge influx of immigrants (like me), just because Globalisation, Global
Warming, without ever asking the current residents if are OK with that or on
which terms (this from his talk did not read the last chapter of the book).
Decided it is best to stop here as I assume my reader has got the point.

With that I would suggest this book only to people that are into writing and
want to see how it is done by a master of the art. I still read his column from
time to time, and really think he is a good person with good intentions, but
from this books - stay away.
