---
layout: default
title: Books of 2021
permalink: /bookshop
---

# Books of 2021

## A Short History of England - Simon Jenkins

Plus: Very condensed, will help me understand books that I will read later on English history. Gives perspective.

Minus: Loves Parliament as an institution too much. Has this approach on writing English history that for the imperial years mentions only on what was happening only in England leaving gaps, example: discusses that in the 1950s troops needed to suppress two uprisings, in I think Kenya and Cyprus, but nowhere mentions how and why say Cyprus became part of the empire in the first place.

Links:

1.  [GoodReads Review](www.goodreads.com/review/show/3831444417)

## Tokyo Ghost

Very mixed feelings; I like it more than I don't.

Pros:

Some very nice ideas in the script as they are being laid out in the first issues.
Amazing execution of everything: characters, details, scenery, delight to look at and puts you in its world

Cons:

Essentially one: lost potential. While authors could do something amazing with the ideas and the setting in the first issues they got stuck in the quicksand of contemporary American culture/ideology and everything got sucked up there: blame on big corp moreover to special people, never on systems that allowed these corporations to become big and never ever for any reason anything against big government. <spoiler>When we add to the mix a technophobic climax and story conclusion alongside with an atheistic - man made god - moment on the epilogue </spoiler> we get an apotheosis of boring USA style cliché-ism and shallowness for honestly no apparent reason - they could easily work a little bit more and deliver something really amazing: we know they can do it as we saw on the first issues. A small cliffhanging moment while there is no sequel planned in sight makes things slightly worse for me as we will never find out what happened.

Tokyo Ghost has everything that the reasons I try to stay away from northern American comics: shallowness, tired and easy to predict viewpoints and politics, strong of execution paired with weak story lines. Generally very nice if not taken seriously.

Links:

1.  [GoodReads Review](https://www.goodreads.com/review/show/30301502)

## XXX

YYY

Links:

1.  [GoodReads Review](XXXX)
