---
layout: default
title: Books of 2022
permalink: /books2022
---

# Books of 2022

## The Story of China: A Portrait of a Civilisation and Its People - Michael Wood

Very mixed impressions and feelings. Lately reading many books like "Silk Roads" which discuss history from different nations' point of view. I had an idea on how for example the world on 1200  was for those living England vs Greece, but how were things then in Persia, China, Middle East at the same time?

With that when I found out about this book plus the recommendation from Tom Holland on the cover, I purchased it. Read it after 2/3 years as the first time I dropped it. Although does what it is supposed to do, I pushed from the first 100/200 pages myself to read it hence although I got what I wanted out of it would not recommend it.

In favour: Well researched, up to date as mentions discoveries very close to the year the book was published. Gives you an understanding.

Against: At crucial moments the author drops kind of trying to appease / being ultra apologetic on violent events that happened hundreds of years ago. Dropping sentences like "also the Persians/Assyrians/Whatever massacred their enemies" or "something similar happened in medieval England". Similarly going out of his way to prove the continuity of the Chinese civilisation dropping "this thing still happens to this day" at every chance. Feels the author is trying to preemptively avoid possible censorship or trying to convey an - imaginary - party line ("when we were violent everyone was so do not point the finger on us" plus "look how ancient our customs are"). Although this does not happen on the last chapters where the events are far more fresh oddly enough.

These put the reader on guard making the book far less enjoyable than it should be. For that if I could turn back time, I would start my journey into Chinese history elsewhere or will maybe buy another introductory book.

Reading this book also fractured my opinion on Tom Holland, how did he approve this? Did he read all of it? Didn't care? Rushed to create/redeem a favour? Something wrong.
