# 2024

## How Great Visualization Designers Think: Mastery the Art of Insight - Alberto Cairo, Alyssa Flowers

Well, mixed feelings. I am a fan of Alberto Cairo, and every book he writes, I go and buy it almost immediately. I was waiting for this one. I mean,  when I saw it on Goodreads, I was like checking every 2-3 months to see how close its release was and when I could buy it.

Looking at his books, they have a, I would say, downward trend for me, in the sense that the first one had a great impact on me, the second one a little less, the third one even less. That one made sense as it had to do with a very specific issue. Makes sense as it is very specific even from the title: "How Charts Lie: Getting Smarter about Visual Information". For the fourth one, which would have been quite personal to his professional tastes, I had somewhat lover expectations, which I would say were confirmed plus even lower.

Why is that? That happens because the author allows his political preferences to “leak”, a lot, to the point that he even puts the reader who generally agrees with him in defence. That is like to think while reading: where does the interview begin, where does the author throw in a political comment, and where do we have an opinion or propaganda? This makes the reading very, very difficult. And I can't hide a disappointment that filled me while I was reading it.

One example, “immigration”. Well, I am a first generation immigrant, married to also a first generation immigrant, I see the positives of immigration... but somehow Alberto Cairo managed to break my b411s. Like, "Alberto immigration is good, we got it, thank you”. Additionally, where are the negative aspects? Why didn't you interview or reach out to someone with the opposite opinion? Where is your impartiality, let me open the window? Ah, there in that bin, just checking.


And that is of the feelings that I had from reading this book. I got all I wanted from it: books to buy recommended here, people to follow. I learned and saw a lot of things, which will certainly help me in the projects I will do. The overall feeling is very positive. But the negative aspect which becomes more and more present in every book he writes, dropping in his political views tires the reader as they need to be on the defence, making him (OK, me) kind of question the ethics of the author. Based on this, I will continue to buy and read his books, but I think our author-reader relationship has corroded.

